Real Programmers Don’t Use Pascal 5
feats of navigation and improvisation—such as hitting 10-kilometer-wide windows at
Saturn after six years in space, and repairing or bypassing damaged sensor platforms,
radios, and batteries. Allegedly, one Real Programmer managed to tuck a pattern-
matching program into a few hundred bytes of unused memory in a Voyager spacecraft
that searched for, located, and photographed a new moon of Jupiter.
One plan for the Galileo spacecraft is to use a gravity-assist trajectory past Mars on the
way to Jupiter. This trajectory passes within 80±3 kilometers of the surface of Mars.
Nobody is going to trust a Pascal program or programmer for this kind of navigation.
Many of the world’s Real Programmers work for the U. S. Government, mainly in the
Defense Department. This is as it should be. Recently, howev er, a black cloud has
formed on the Real Programmer horizon. It seems that some highly placed Quiche
Eaters at the Defense Department decided that all Defense programs should be written
in some grand unified language called Ada. For a while, it seemed that Ada was des-
tined to become a language that went against all the precepts of Real Programming. It
is a language with structure, data types, strong typing, and semicolons. In short, it’s
designed to cripple the creativity of the typical Real Programmer. Fortunately, the lan-
guage adopted by DoD has enough interesting features to make it approachable—it’s
incredibly complex, includes methods for messing with the operating system and re-
arranging memory, and Edsger Dijkstra doesn’t like it. Dijkstra, as you should know,
authored “Gotos Considered Harmful,” a landmark work in programming methodolo-
gy applauded by Pascal programmers and Quiche Eaters alike. Besides, the deter-
mined Real Programmer can write fortran programs in any language.
The Real Programmer might compromise his principles and work on something slight-
ly more trivial than the destruction of life, providing there’s enough money in it. There
are several Real Programmers building video games at Atari, for example. But they
don’t play the games. A Real Programmer knows how to beat the machine every time
and there’s no challenge in that. Everyone working at LucasFilm is a Real Program-
mer because it would be crazy to turn down the money of 50 million Star Wars fans.
The proportion of Real Programmers in computer graphics is somewhat lower than the
norm, mostly because nobody has found a use for computer graphics yet. On the other
hand, all computer graphics is done in fortran, so there are some people doing
graphics to avoid writing cobol programs.
Generally, the Real Programmer plays the same way he works—with computers. He is
constantly amazed that his employer actually pays him to do what he would be doing
for fun anyway, although he is careful not to express this opinion out loud. Occasion-
ally, the Real Programmer does step out of the office for a breath of fresh air and a beer
or two. Here are some tips on recognizing Real Programmers away from the computer
room:
• At a party, the Real Programmers are the ones in the corner talking about operat-
ing system security and how to get around it.