4 Real Programmers Don’t Use Pascal
about any possible typing error while communicating with teco will probably destroy
your program, or even worse, introduce subtle and mysterious bugs in a once-working
subroutine.
For this reason, Real Programmers are reluctant to actually edit a program that is close
to working. They find it much easier to patch the binary object code directly, using a
wonderful program called superzap (or its equivalent on non-ibm machines). This
works so well that many programs running on ibm systems bear no relation to the orig-
inal fortran code. In a number of cases, the original source code is no longer avail-
able. When it comes time to fix a program like this, no manager would even think of
sending anyone less than a Real Programmer to do the job—no quiche-eating struc-
tured programmer would even know where to start. This is called job security.
Some programming tools not used by Real Programmers include:
• Fortran preprocessors like mortran and ratfor. These Cuisinarts of program-
ming are great for making quiche.
• Source language debuggers. Real Programmers can read core dumps.
• Compilers with array bounds checking. They stifle creativity, destroy most of the
interesting uses for equivalence, and make it impossible to modify the operating
system code with negative subscripts. Worst of all, bounds checking is ineffi-
cient.
• Source code maintenance systems. A Real Programmer keeps his code locked in
a card file, because it implies that the owner cannot leave his important programs
unguarded.
Where does the typical Real Programmer work? What kind of programs are worthy of
such talented individuals? You can be sure that no Real Programmer would be caught
dead writing accounts-receivable programs in cobol, or sorting mailing lists for Peo-
ple magazine. A Real Programmer wants tasks of earth-shaking importance.
Real Programmers work for Los Alamos National Laboratory, writing atomic bomb
simulations to run on cray i supercomputers. They also work for the National Securi-
ty Agency, decoding Russian transmissions.
It was largely due to the efforts of thousands of Real Programmers working for nasa
that our boys got to the moon and back before the cosmonauts. Computers in the
Space Shuttle were programmed by Real Programmers, and these true professionals
are at work for Boeing, designing operating systems for cruise missiles.
Some of the most awesome Real Programmers work at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
in California. Many of them know the entire operating system of the Pioneer and Voy-
ager spacecraft by heart. With a combination of large ground-based fortran pro-
grams and small spacecraft-based assembly language programs, they can do incredible