6 Real Programmers Don’t Use Pascal
• At a football game, the Real Programmer is the one comparing the plays against
his simulations printed on 11-by-14 fanfold paper.
• At the beach, the Real Programmer is the one drawing flowcharts in the sand.
• A Real Programmer goes to a disco to watch the light show.
• At a funeral, the Real Programmer is the one saying “Poor George. And he al-
most had the sort routine working before the coronary.”
• In a grocery store, the Real Programmer is the one who insists on running the
cans past the laser checkout scanner himself, because he never could trust key-
punch operators to get it right the first time.
What sort of environment does the Real Programmer function best in? This is an im-
portant question for the managers of Real Programmers. Considering the amount of
money it costs to keep one on the staff, it’s best to put him or her in optimal environ-
ment.
The typical Real Programmer lives in front of a computer terminal. Surrounding this
terminal are the listings of every program he has ever worked on. These are piled in
roughly chronological order on every flat surface in the office. You will also find some
half-dozen or so partly filled cups of cold coffee. Occasionally, there will be cigarette
butts floating in the coffee. In some cases, the cups will contain Orange Crush. And,
unless he is very good, there will be copies of the os jcl manual and the Principles of
Operation open to some particularly interesting pages. Taped to the wall is a line-
printer Snoopy calendar for the year 1969. Strewn about the floor there will be several
wrappers for peanut butter-filled cheese bars (the type that are made stale at the bakery
so they can’t get any worse while waiting in the vending machine). Finally, in the top
left-hand desk drawer, underneath the box of Oreos, is a flowcharting template, left
there by the previous occupant. Real Programmers write programs, not documenta-
tion, which is left to the maintenance people.
The Real Programmer is capable of working 30, 40, even 50 hours at a stretch, under
intense pressure. In fact, he prefers it that way. Bad response time doesn’t bother the
Real Programmer; it gives him a chance to catch a little sleep between compiles. If
there is not enough schedule pressure on the Real Programmer, he tends to make
things more challenging by working on some small but interesting part of the problem
for the first nine weeks. Then he finishes the task in the last week, in two or three
50-hour marathons. This not only impresses his manager, but creates a convenient ex-
cuse for not doing the documentation. In general: no Real Programmer works 9 to 5,
except those on the night shift. Real Programmers don’t wear neckties. Real Pro-
grammers don’t wear high-heeled shoes. Real Programmers arrive at work in time for
lunch. A Real Programmer may or may not know his spouse’s name. He does, how-
ev er, know the entire ascii (or ebcdic) code table. Real Programmers don’t know how
to cook. Grocery stores aren’t often open at 3 a. m., so they must survive on Twinkies
and coffee.