<Discharge Report>
EGGLI Marius, 27.09.1980, Paradisstrasse 57, 3014 Bern
Dear Colleague,
We report on the above-mentioned patient already known to us,
who was in our inpatient care from 01.03.2024 to 29.03.2024 and
in our (partial) inpatient care from 30.04.2024 to 15.04.2024
on Ward Methusalem.

<Diagnoses>
* F33.2 Recurrent depressive disorder, current severe episode without psychotic symptoms

<Psychiatric and Somatic Comorbid Diagnoses>
* F90.0 ADHD (external diagnosis), simple activity and attention disorder
* History of F10.0 Mental and behavioral disorders due to alcohol, acute intoxication
* Arterial hypertension

<Admission Circumstances>
Presented to the Insel psychiatric emergency service on referral from Dr. Zwanghaft,
accompanied by his wife on a voluntary basis.
Transferred from there by taxi to UPD Bolligenstrasse.

<Summary of History>
Mr. Eggli reported experiencing stress at work upon admission. He has felt overwhelmed since the summer, has had to work many extra hours, and felt like he had hardly any free time. He has not felt joy for months, possibly years, and is just surviving. Recently, he has had to force himself to go to work as he no longer had the motivation.
To self-medicate and remain active, he increasingly consumed stimulants (approximately 60 mg of methylphenidate orally per day).
Initially, he was prescribed these by the Concentration Center two years ago, but now he obtains the medication illicitly on the street.
He took a vacation and was glad to finally have time for himself. He would have preferred to stay at home and rest but noticed that he was deteriorating and needed help. Regarding his current condition, he suffers most from fatigue, lack of drive, and persistently low mood. He hopes things will improve soon.

<Previous Psychiatric History>
Single outpatient consultation with psychiatrist Dr. Hysterion five years ago (ca. 2019) due to relationship conflicts.
Two years ago (2021), ADHD was diagnosed at the Concentration Center, and he was treated with various medications for ADHD and depression (Concerta, Wellbutrin), most recently with methylphenidate at 20 mg daily.
Since January 2023, outpatient psychotherapy with Dr. phil. Daphne Hörgutzu. No previous psychiatric hospitalizations.

<Somatic History>
Arterial hypertension since 2021, treated with Lisinopril 5 mg.
Assessment at Meer Hospital due to porphyria.

<Sociobiographical History>
Full-time security guard at Safenight since 2020. Currently on vacation until the end of April 2024.
Single, no stable relationship, no children. Trained as a hairdresser in 2005. Lives alone in Bern.
Evidence of earlier untreated depressive episodes. Describes himself as socially withdrawn. Good but recently reduced contact with his mother, who lives in Thun. No contact with father, no siblings.

<Family History>
His mother was treated for depression. No other known psychiatric illnesses in the family.

<Substance Use>
[Section missing in original document.]

<Collateral History>
His mother reported (phone call on 20.04.2024) that her son had appeared significantly more withdrawn in recent weeks. He rarely initiated contact and sounded mostly very down and sad on the phone. She could not identify a specific reason.

<Forensic History>
Empty.

<Examination Findings>
<Mental Status>
Clear consciousness, fully oriented. Proverb interpreted correctly ("the apple doesn't fall far from the tree"). Slight disorientation in time (gaps in memory of past treatments). Mild concentration and memory difficulties. Slightly slowed but goal-directed and coherent thought processes. Overvalued ideas of impoverishment. Denies visual and auditory hallucinations. Denies experiences of external control.
Affective state severely depressed, with significantly reduced but preserved emotional reactivity. Feelings of worthlessness, pessimistic outlook on the future. Loss of interest and marked reduction in drive. Reports intermittent fears about the future and financial concerns. Loss of appetite. Denies compulsions. Otherwise friendly and cooperative in contact.
Severe difficulties falling asleep; never sleeps before 2:00 AM. Clearly and credibly denies acute suicidal thoughts or plans. No previous suicide attempts. Reports intermittent passive death wishes.
Protective factors: permanent employment and stabilizing relationship with his mother. Capable of making agreements. Clearly distanced from any danger to others.
Overall, no indications of acute self- or external endangerment.

<Somatoneurological Status>
36-year-old patient in adequately groomed general condition and mildly overweight nutritional status (BMI: 28 kg/m2), temperature 37.5°C, pulse 81/min, blood pressure 140/80 mmHg, O2 saturation 99% in room air.
Pulmo: Normal thoracic excursions. Respiratory rate normal, vesicular breath sounds over all lung fields. Percussion unremarkable.
Cardio: Normocardic, regular. No leg edema, jugular veins not distended. Foot pulses bilaterally palpable. Clear heart sounds, no murmurs auscultated.
Abdomen: Soft, active bowel sounds in all quadrants. No percussion tenderness, no rebound, no guarding. No palpable masses.
Skin: Umbilical and bilateral tragus and auricular piercings, bilateral forearm and lower back tattoos. Otherwise unremarkable integument.
Musculoskeletal: Joints freely movable, no spinal or costovertebral angle tenderness. Head and neck freely movable, unremarkable. Limbs symmetrical and freely mobile.
Neurological: Pupils mid-size and equal, direct and consensual light reflex prompt and symmetrical. Oculomotor function intact, no nystagmus. No facial sensory loss, no facial asymmetry. Finger rubbing perceived. No curtain sign. Tongue movements symmetrical. Trapezius and sternocleidomastoid strength M5/5 and symmetrical. No pareses. Grip strength, elbow and hip flexion/extension, toe and foot dorsiflexion and plantarflexion bilaterally M5/5 and symmetrical. Reflexes (BSR, TSR, ASR, PSR) brisk and sy...
<Additional Examinations>
Labs and ECG attached.
MRI of the brain from 10.03.2024 (Neuroradiology Meer Hospital): Overall age-appropriate unremarkable finding.
EEG from 01.03.2024: Slightly dysrhythmic alpha EEG around 8 to 10 Hz without definite signs of increased cerebral excitability, slowing, or lateral asymmetry.

<Therapy and Course>
<On Diagnostic Classification>
Based on depressed affect, reduced drive and anhedonia, self-devaluation, guilt, sleep disturbances, pessimistic outlook on the future, and biographical indications of earlier depressive episodes, we diagnosed a severe recurrent depressive episode.
As differential diagnosis, an anxious-avoidant personality structure was considered, although we did not diagnose a personality disorder due to the currently pronounced affective symptoms. No indication of a specific organic cause, particularly with a normal MRI.

<On Integrated Therapy Program>
During inpatient treatment, Mr. Eggli participated in our multimodal treatment program, which included medical-pharmacological treatment, individual and group psychotherapy, and primary nursing care.

<On Psychopharmacology>
Pharmacologically, we chose to initiate venlafaxine at a low starting dose of 37.5 mg per day and titrated up to the target dose of 75 mg per day. During titration, typical but tolerable side effects occurred, including mild nausea, headaches, dizziness, and increased sweating. These subsided completely over the course of treatment. Follow-up ECG and laboratory controls were consistently unremarkable.

<On Psychotherapeutic Topics>
Following diagnostic clarification, it was found that Mr. Eggli frequently had negative thoughts regarding his professional performance, leading to feelings of worthlessness. In therapy, he learned to identify and challenge these thoughts. A developed coping strategy included collecting concrete evidence of his capabilities by documenting past successes or reflecting on positive feedback from colleagues or supervisors.
Cognitive restructuring techniques were applied in individual and group therapy sessions to alter his thought patterns and strengthen his self-esteem. Additionally, relaxation exercises and stress management techniques were taught to help him better manage work-related challenges and improve his overall well-being.

<On Social Situation>
Upon completion of treatment, the patient returned to his rented apartment and existing employment.

<On Course>
During the course of treatment, ruminative thoughts, reduced drive, anhedonia, and his future outlook improved. At discharge, he presented with a largely remitted depressive syndrome and no signs of acute suicidality.
We discharge Mr. Eggli in a stable mental condition, with no indications of acute self- or external endangerment, back into his established living and work environment.

<Medication at Discharge>
Medication, Dose, Notes  
LISINOPRIL 5 mg film tablet (Lisinopril), 1-0-0-0 daily since 14.05.2020  
DAFALGAN 500 mg tablet (Paracetamol), 1-0-0-0 daily since 14.05.2020  
As needed: 1 (max. 3) tablets since 14.05.2020, reserved; max. 3.00 tablets/24h

<Follow-up Plan>
* For outpatient psychiatric follow-up, we scheduled an appointment for Mr. Eggli with Dr. Zwanghaft on 31.6.2024  
* Ongoing general medical care will kindly be continued by Dr. Grundversorgung  
* We recommend lifelong abstinence from alcohol  
* After stabilization in the outpatient setting, we recommend a trial taper of venlafaxine no earlier than around December 2024; in case of symptom worsening, an increase in dosage should be considered  
* We recommend continuation of outpatient psychotherapeutic treatment, which Mr. Eggli wishes to discuss with Dr. Zwanghaft  
* Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions.
