
<Discharge Report>
EGGLI Marius, 27.09.1980, Paradisstrasse 57, 3014 Bern
Dear Colleague,
We report on the above-mentioned patient already known to us,
who was in our inpatient care from 01.03.2024 to 29.03.2024 and
from 30.04.2024 to 15.04.2024 in our (partial) inpatient care
on Ward Methusalem.

<Diagnoses>
Depressive episode

<Psychiatric and Somatic Comorbid Diagnoses>
* F90.0 ADHD (external diagnosis), simple activity and attention disorder
* History of F10.0 Mental and behavioral disorders due to alcohol, acute intoxication
* Arterial hypertension

<Admission Circumstances>
Presentation to the Insel psychiatric emergency service referred by Dr. Zwanghaft,
accompanied by his wife on a voluntary basis.
From there transferred by taxi to UPD Bolligenstrasse.

<Summary of History>
Mr. Eggli reported stress at his workplace upon admission. Since the summer, he has felt overwhelmed, had to work overtime, and felt like he had almost no free time. He had not felt joy for months, possibly years, and was merely surviving. Recently, he had to force himself to go to work, lacking motivation.
As self-medication to be able to function, he increasingly consumed stimulants (approx. 60 mg methylphenidate orally per day). Initially, he received a prescription from the Concentration Center two years ago, but now he obtains the medication from the street.
He had taken vacation and was glad to finally have time for himself. He would prefer to stay at home and rest but realized he was feeling increasingly worse at home and needed help. Regarding his current condition, he mainly suffers from fatigue, lack of motivation, and persistent low mood. He hopes for improvement soon.

<Previous Psychiatric History>
Single consultation with an outpatient psychiatrist (Dr. Hysterion) five years ago (ca. 2019) due to relationship conflicts.
Assessment at the Concentration Center in 2021: diagnosed with ADHD, treated with various medications for ADHD and depression (Concerta, Wellbutrin), most recently methylphenidate, 20 mg daily.
Since January 2023, outpatient psychotherapy with Dr. phil. Daphne Hörgutzu. No prior psychiatric hospitalizations.

<Somatic History>
Arterial hypertension since 2021, treated with Lisinopril 5 mg.
Evaluation at Meer Hospital for porphyria.

<Sociobiographical History>
Security employee at Safenight since 2020, working full time.
Currently on vacation until the end of April 2024. Single, no stable relationship, no children. Completed hairdressing training in 2005. Lives alone in Bern.
Evidence of earlier untreated depressive episodes. Describes himself as socially withdrawn. Good but recently reduced contact with his mother, who lives in Thun. No contact with father, no siblings.

<Family History>
Mr. Eggli’s mother was treated for depression; otherwise, no known psychiatric illnesses in the family.

<Substance Use>
Alcohol very rarely. One instance of severe intoxication in 2000 with 3.5 ‰ monitored in the emergency department. On admission day, he had “2 sips” of vodka. Otherwise, no regular alcohol consumption. Occasional cannabis use in youth; abstinent for many years.

<Collateral History>
His mother (phone call 20.04.2024) reported that he had appeared significantly more withdrawn in recent weeks. He rarely initiated contact and sounded mostly very depressed and sad on the phone. She could not name a specific reason.

<Forensic History>
None.

<Mental Status Examination>
Clear consciousness, fully oriented. Proverb interpreted correctly (“apple doesn’t fall far from the tree”). Slight disorientation in time (gaps in memory regarding past treatments). Mild concentration and memory issues. Slightly slowed but coherent and goal-directed thinking. Prevalent poverty-related thoughts. Denies visual and auditory hallucinations. Denies influence by external forces. Affective state severely depressed, emotional reactivity strongly reduced but preserved. Feelings of worthlessness, pessimistic outlook. Loss of interest and significant drive reduction. Intermittent fears about the future and financial worries. Appetite loss. Denies compulsions. Otherwise cooperative and friendly. Severe sleep-onset insomnia—never falls asleep before 2:00 AM. Acute suicidal thoughts and plans clearly and credibly denied. No previous suicide attempts. Reported intermittent passive death wishes. Protective factors: permanent employment and supportive relationship with mother. Capable of agreement. No signs of risk to others. No signs of acute self- or other-endangerment.
