
<Somatoneurological Status>
36-year-old patient in adequately groomed general condition and mildly overweight nutritional status (BMI: 28 kg/m2), temperature 37.5°C, pulse 81/min, blood pressure 140/80 mmHg, O2 saturation 99% in room air.
Pulmo: Normal thoracic excursions. Respiratory rate normal, vesicular breath sounds over all lung fields. Percussion unremarkable.
Cardio: Normocardic, regular. No leg edema, jugular veins not distended. Pedal pulses palpable bilaterally. Heart sounds clear, no murmurs auscultated.
Abdomen: Soft, active bowel sounds in all quadrants. No percussion tenderness, no rebound tenderness, no guarding. No palpable masses.
Skin: Umbilical and bilateral tragus and auricular piercings, bilateral forearm and lower back tattoos. Otherwise unremarkable integument.
Musculoskeletal: Joints freely movable, no spinal or costovertebral angle tenderness. Head and neck freely movable, unremarkable. Limbs symmetrical and freely movable.
Neurological: Pupils mid-sized and equal, direct and consensual light reaction prompt and symmetrical. Oculomotor function intact, no nystagmus. No facial sensory loss or mimic asymmetry. Finger rubbing heard. No curtain sign, tongue movements symmetrical. Trapezius and sternocleidomastoid strength M5/5 and symmetrical. No paresis. Hand grip, elbow and hip flexion/extension, toe and foot dorsiflexion and plantarflexion bilaterally M5/5 and symmetrical. Reflexes (biceps, triceps, Achilles, patellar) ...

<Additional Examinations>
Laboratory tests and ECG attached.
Brain MRI (10.03.2024, Neuroradiology Meer Hospital): Overall age-appropriate and unremarkable findings.
EEG (01.03.2024): Slightly dysrhythmic alpha EEG at 8–10 Hz without definite signs of increased cerebral excitability, slowing, or lateral asymmetry.

<Therapy and Course>
<On Diagnostic Classification>
Based on depressed mood, lack of drive and anhedonia, self-deprecation, guilt, sleep disturbances, pessimistic outlook, and biographical evidence of previous depressive episodes, we diagnosed a severe recurrent depressive episode. Differential diagnosis included an avoidant personality structure, but we did not diagnose a personality disorder due to the currently pronounced affective symptoms. No indications of a specific organic etiology, especially with a normal MRI.

<On Integrated Therapy Program>
During inpatient treatment, Mr. Eggli participated in our multimodal treatment program, which included medical-pharmacological treatment, individual and group psychotherapy, and primary nursing care.

<On Psychopharmacology>
We initiated venlafaxine at a low starting dose of 37.5 mg per day, titrated up to a target dose of 75 mg per day. Typical but tolerable side effects occurred during titration, including mild nausea, headache, dizziness, and increased sweating. These resolved over time. Serial ECGs and laboratory monitoring were unremarkable.

<On Psychotherapeutic Topics>
After diagnostic clarification, it became evident that Mr. Eggli often had negative thoughts about his work performance, leading to feelings of worthlessness. In therapy, he learned to identify and challenge these thoughts. A coping strategy developed was to collect concrete evidence of his capabilities by documenting past successes or reflecting on positive feedback from colleagues or supervisors. Cognitive restructuring techniques were applied in individual and group therapy to change his thought patterns ...

<On Social Situation>
Following the completion of treatment, the patient returned to his rental apartment and existing employment.

<On Clinical Course>
Over the course of treatment, rumination, lack of drive, and anhedonia as well as his outlook on the future improved. At discharge, a largely remitted depressive syndrome was present, with no signs of acute suicidality. Mr. Eggli was discharged in stable mental condition with no indications of acute self- or other-endangerment into his established living and working situation.

<Medication at Discharge>
Medication, Dose, Notes  
LISINOPRIL 5 mg film tablet (Lisinopril), 1-0-0-0 daily since 14.05.2020  
DAFALGAN 500 mg tablet (Paracetamol), 1-0-0-0 daily since 14.05.2020  
As needed: 1 (max. 3) tablet since 14.05.2020, reserve use; max. 3.00 tablets per 24 hours

<Follow-up Plan>
* For outpatient psychiatric follow-up, we scheduled an appointment with Dr. Zwanghaft on 31.6.2024  
* General medical follow-up will kindly continue with Dr. Grundversorgung  
* We recommend permanent abstinence from alcohol  
* After stabilization in outpatient care, we recommend a trial taper of venlafaxine no earlier than approximately December 2024; in case of symptom worsening, a dose increase should be considered  
* We recommend continuing outpatient psychotherapeutic treatment, which Mr. Eggli wishes to discuss with Dr. Zwanghaft  
* Please do not hesitate to contact us with any further questions.
