
<Somatoneurological Status>
36-year-old patient in adequately groomed general condition and mildly overweight nutritional status (BMI: 28 kg/m2), temperature 37.5°C, pulse 81/min, blood pressure 140/80 mmHg, O2 saturation 99% in room air.
Pulmo: Unremarkable thoracic excursions. Respiratory rate normal, vesicular breath sounds over all lung fields. Percussion unremarkable.
Cardio: Normocardic, regular. No leg edema, jugular veins not distended. Pedal pulses bilaterally palpable. Heart sounds clear, no murmurs auscultated.
Abdomen: Soft, active bowel sounds in all quadrants. No percussion tenderness, no pressure pain, no rebound tenderness. No palpable masses.
Skin: Umbilical and bilateral tragus and auricular piercings, bilateral forearm and lower back tattoos. Otherwise unremarkable integument.
Musculoskeletal: Joints freely movable, no spinal or costovertebral angle tenderness. Head and neck freely movable, unremarkable. Extremities bilaterally freely movable.
Neurological: Pupils mid-sized and isocoric, direct and consensual light reaction prompt and symmetrical. Oculomotor function intact, no nystagmus. No facial sensory loss, no facial asymmetry. Finger rubbing heard. No curtain sign. Tongue movements symmetrical. Trapezius and sternocleidomastoid strength M5/5 and symmetrical. No pareses. Hand grip, elbow and hip flexion/extension, dorsiflexion and plantarflexion of big toe and foot bilaterally M5/5 and symmetrical. Biceps, triceps, Achilles, and pate...

<Additional Examinations>
Labs and ECG attached.
Brain MRI from 10.03.2024 (Neuroradiology Meer Hospital): Overall age-appropriate unremarkable finding.
EEG from 01.03.2024: Slightly dysrhythmic alpha EEG around 8 to 10 Hz without definitive signs of increased cerebral excitability, slowing, or lateral asymmetry.

<Therapy and Course>
<On Diagnostic Classification>
Based on depressed affect, reduced drive and anhedonia, self-deprecation, guilt, sleep disturbances, pessimistic outlook, and biographical indications of earlier depressive episodes, we diagnosed a severe recurrent depressive episode. Differential diagnosis considered an anxious-avoidant personality structure, though no personality disorder was diagnosed due to the currently pronounced affective symptomatology. No indication of specific organic etiology, especially given the unremarkable MRI.

<On Integrated Therapy Program>
During inpatient treatment, Mr. Eggli participated in our multimodal treatment program, which included medical-pharmacological treatment, individual and group psychotherapy, and primary nursing care.

<On Psychopharmacology>
Pharmacologically, we chose to initiate venlafaxine at a low starting dose of 37.5 mg per day and titrated up to a target dose of 75 mg per day. During the titration phase, typical but tolerable side effects occurred, including mild nausea, headache, dizziness, and increased sweating. These resolved completely in the course of treatment. Serial ECG and lab monitoring remained unremarkable.

<On Psychotherapeutic Topics>
Following diagnostic clarification, it was found that Mr. Eggli often had negative thoughts about his occupational performance, which led to feelings of worthlessness. In therapy, he learned to identify and challenge these thoughts. One coping strategy developed involved collecting concrete evidence of his abilities by documenting past successes or reflecting on positive feedback from colleagues or supervisors.
Cognitive restructuring techniques were then applied in individual and group sessions to change his thought patterns and improve self-esteem. Additionally, relaxation exercises and stress management techniques were introduced to help him better cope with professional challenges and increase his well-being.

<On Social Situation>
Following completion of treatment, the patient returned to his rental apartment and resumed his existing employment.

<On Course>
Condition improved over the course of treatment. [Note: original text ends with "Es verbesserte sich XXX."]

<Medication at Discharge>
Medication, Dose, Notes  
LISINOPRIL 5 mg film-coated tablet (Lisinopril), 1-0-0-0 since 14.05.2020, daily  
DAFALGAN 500 mg tablet (Paracetamol), 1-0-0-0 since 14.05.2020, daily  
As needed: 1 (max. 3) tablets since 14.05.2020; maximum 3.00 tablets/24 hours

<Follow-up Plan>
* For outpatient psychiatric follow-up, we scheduled an appointment for Mr. Eggli with Dr. Zwanghaft on 31.6.2024  
* Continued general medical care will kindly be provided by Dr. Grundversorgung  
* We recommend permanent abstinence from alcohol  
* After stabilization in the outpatient setting, we recommend a trial taper of venlafaxine no earlier than approx. December 2024; in case of deterioration, dose increase may also be considered  
* We recommend continued outpatient psychotherapy, which Mr. Eggli wishes to discuss with Dr. Zwanghaft  
* Please do not hesitate to contact us for further questions.
