
<Somatoneurological Status>
36-year-old patient in adequately groomed general condition and mildly overweight nutritional status (BMI: 28 kg/m2), temperature 37.5°C, pulse 81/min, blood pressure 140/80 mmHg, O2 saturation 99% on room air.
Pulmo: Normal thoracic excursions. Normal respiratory rate, vesicular breath sounds over all lung fields. Percussion unremarkable.
Cardio: Normocardic, regular. No leg edema, jugular veins not distended. Pedal pulses bilaterally palpable. Clear heart sounds, no murmurs auscultated.
Abdomen: Soft, active bowel sounds in all quadrants. No percussion tenderness, no pressure pain, no rebound tenderness. No palpable masses.
Skin: Umbilical, bilateral tragus and auricular piercings, tattoos on both forearms and lower back. Otherwise unremarkable integument.
Musculoskeletal: Joints freely movable, no tenderness on percussion over the spine or costovertebral angles. Head and neck freely movable, unremarkable. Limbs bilaterally freely movable.
Neurological: Pupils mid-sized and isocoric, prompt and symmetrical direct and consensual light reflex. Oculomotor function intact, no nystagmus. No facial sensory deficit, no facial asymmetry. Finger rubbing heard. No curtain sign. Tongue movements symmetrical. Trapezius and sternocleidomastoid strength M5/5 and symmetrical. No pareses. Hand grip, elbow and hip flexion/extension, dorsiflexion and plantarflexion of big toe and foot bilaterally M5/5 and symmetrical. Reflexes (BSR, TSR, ASR, PSR) br...

<Additional Examinations>
Lab and ECG attached.
Brain MRI from 10.03.2024 (Neuroradiology Meer Hospital): Overall age-appropriate normal findings.
EEG from 01.03.2024: Slightly dysrhythmic alpha EEG around 8 to 10 Hz without definitive signs of increased cerebral excitability, slowing, or lateral asymmetry.

<Therapy and Course>
<On Diagnostic Classification>
Based on depressive affect, reduced drive and anhedonia, as well as self-deprecation, guilt, sleep disturbances, pessimistic future outlook, and biographical evidence of previous depressive episodes, we diagnosed a severe recurrent depressive episode. As differential diagnosis, an anxious-avoidant personality structure was considered; however, no personality disorder was diagnosed due to the currently pronounced affective symptoms. No indications of a specific organic origin were found, particularly with normal MRI.

<On Integrated Therapy Program>
During inpatient treatment, Mr. Eggli participated in our multimodal treatment program, which included medical-pharmacological treatment, individual and group psychotherapy, and primary nursing care.

<On Psychopharmacology>
Pharmacologically, we chose to initiate venlafaxine at a low starting dose of 37.5 mg per day and titrated up to a target dose of 75 mg per day. Typical but tolerable side effects occurred during titration, including mild nausea, headaches, dizziness, and increased sweating. These subsided completely during the course. Serial ECGs and lab monitoring were unremarkable.

<On Psychotherapeutic Topics>
Following diagnostic clarification, it became evident that Mr. Eggli frequently harbored negative thoughts about his professional performance, which led to feelings of worthlessness. In therapy, he learned to identify and challenge these thoughts. A developed coping strategy involved collecting concrete evidence of his abilities by recording past successes or reflecting on positive feedback from colleagues or supervisors. Cognitive restructuring techniques were then applied in individual and group therapy sessions to change his thought patterns and enhance his self-esteem. Additionally, relaxation exercises and stress management techniques were conveyed to help him better handle professional challenges and increase his well-being.

<On Social Situation>
After completion of treatment, the patient returned to his rented apartment and resumed his existing employment.

<On Course>
Over the course of treatment, rumination, reduced drive, anhedonia, and future perspective improved. At discharge, a largely remitted depressive syndrome was present without indications of acute suicidality. Mr. Eggli was discharged in stable mental condition and, in the absence of any indications of acute danger to self or others, returned to his established living and working circumstances.

<Medication at Discharge>
Medication, Dose, Comments  
LISINOPRIL 5 mg film-coated tablet (Lisinopril), 1-0-0-0 daily since 14.05.2020  
DAFALGAN 500 mg tablet (Paracetamol), 1-0-0-0 daily since 14.05.2020  
as needed: 1 (max. 3) tablets since 14.05.2020, reserved use; max. 3.00 tablets/24 hrs

<Follow-up Plan>
* For outpatient psychiatric follow-up, we scheduled an appointment with Dr. Zwanghaft on 31.6.2024  
* General medical care will kindly continue with Dr. Grundversorgung  
* We recommend permanent abstinence from alcohol  
* After stabilization in the outpatient setting, we recommend a trial taper of venlafaxine no earlier than approximately December 2024; if condition worsens, a dose increase should also be considered  
* We recommend continued outpatient psychotherapy, which Mr. Eggli wishes to discuss with Dr. Zwanghaft  
* Please feel free to contact us with any questions.
