
<Discharge Report>
EGGLI Marius, 27.09.1980, Paradisstrasse 57, 3014 Bern
Dear Colleague,
We report on the above-mentioned patient already known to us, who was in our inpatient care 
from 01.03.2024 to 29.03.2024 and in our (partial) inpatient care from 30.04.2024 to 15.04.2024 
on Ward Methusalem.

<Diagnoses>
* F33.2 Recurrent depressive disorder, current severe episode without psychotic symptoms

<Psychiatric and Somatic Comorbid Diagnoses>
* F90.0 ADHD (external diagnosis), simple activity and attention disorder
* History of F10.0 Mental and behavioral disorders due to alcohol, acute intoxication
* Arterial hypertension

<Admission Circumstances>
Presentation at the Insel psychiatric emergency department following referral by Dr. Zwanghaft, 
accompanied by his wife on a voluntary basis. From there, transfer by taxi to UPD Bolligenstrasse.

<Summary of History>
Mr. Eggli reported experiencing stress at work at the time of admission. He stated that since the summer, 
he has felt overwhelmed, had to work many overtime hours, and had almost no free time. He reported 
not having felt joy for months, possibly years, and that he was just surviving. Recently, he had to 
force himself to go to work, as he no longer had any desire to do so. As self-medication, to be able 
to function, he had increasingly consumed stimulants (approximately 60 mg methylphenidate orally per day). 
Initially, he had these prescribed by the Concentration Center two years ago, but now obtains them illicitly.
He had taken vacation time and was glad to finally have time for himself. He would prefer to stay home 
and rest but noticed that his condition worsened at home and that he needed help. 
Regarding his current condition, he suffers most from exhaustion and lack of motivation, 
as well as a predominantly sad mood. He hopes this will improve soon.

<Previous Psychiatric History>
[Missing from source document.]

<Somatic History>
Arterial hypertension since 2021, treated with Lisinopril 5 mg.
Evaluation at Meer Hospital for suspected porphyria.

<Sociobiographical History>
Full-time security employee at Safenight since 2020.
Currently on vacation until the end of April 2024. Single, no steady relationship, no children.
Trained as a hairdresser in 2005. Lives alone in Bern.
Evidence of earlier untreated depressive episodes. Describes himself as socially withdrawn.
Good, though recently reduced, contact with his mother, who lives in Thun.
No contact with father, no siblings.

<Family History>
His mother was treated for depression; no other psychiatric illnesses known in the family.

<Substance Use>
Alcohol very rarely. One-time severe intoxication in 2000 with a blood alcohol level of 3.5‰, 
monitored in emergency care. On the day of admission, he consumed “two sips” of vodka.
Otherwise, no regular alcohol use.
Occasional cannabis use in youth; abstinent for many years.

<Collateral History>
His mother reported (telephone call on 20.04.2024) that her son had recently seemed much more withdrawn.
He rarely initiated contact and usually appeared very sad and down on the phone. 
She could not name a specific reason.

<Forensic History>
None.

<Examination Findings>
<Mental Status>
Clear consciousness, fully oriented. Proverb interpreted correctly 
("the apple doesn't fall far from the tree"). Mild temporal disorientation 
(patchy memory of previous treatments). Mild concentration and memory difficulties. 
Thought process slightly slowed but goal-directed and coherent. Overvalued ideas of impoverishment. 
Denies visual and auditory hallucinations. Denies thought influence experiences. 
Affect severely depressed, emotional reactivity markedly reduced but preserved.
Feelings of worthlessness, pessimistic outlook on the future. Loss of interest and significantly reduced drive. 
Reports intermittent fears about the future and financial worries. Reduced appetite.
Denies compulsive symptoms. Otherwise friendly and cooperative in contact.
Severe difficulty falling asleep, never before 2:00 a.m.
Acute suicidal thoughts and plans clearly and credibly denied. No suicide attempts so far.
Reports intermittent passive death wishes.
Protective factors: permanent employment and stabilizing relationship with mother.
Able to engage in agreements. Clearly distanced from risk to others.
Overall, no indication of acute danger to self or others.
