
<Discharge Report>
EGGLI Marius, 27.09.1980, Paradisstrasse 57, 3014 Bern
Dear Colleague,
We report on the above-mentioned patient already known to us, who was in our inpatient care 
from 01.03.2024 to 29.03.2024 and in our (partial) inpatient care from 30.04.2024 to 15.04.2024 
on Ward Methusalem.

<Diagnoses>
* F33.2 Recurrent depressive disorder, current severe episode without psychotic symptoms

<Psychiatric and Somatic Comorbid Diagnoses>
* F90.0 ADHD (external diagnosis), simple activity and attention disorder
* History of F10.0 Mental and behavioral disorders due to alcohol, acute intoxication
* Arterial hypertension

<Admission Circumstances>
Presentation at the Insel psychiatric emergency department following referral by Dr. Zwanghaft, 
accompanied by his wife on a voluntary basis. Transferred from there by taxi to UPD Bolligenstrasse.

<Summary of History>
Mr. Eggli reported work-related stress at the time of admission. Since the summer, he has felt 
overwhelmed, has had to work a lot of overtime, and felt that he had hardly any leisure time. 
He stated he has not experienced joy for months, possibly years, and that he is merely surviving. 
Recently, he had to force himself to go to work because he no longer had the motivation. 
To self-medicate and remain functional, he increasingly consumed stimulants (about 60 mg 
methylphenidate orally per day). Initially, he was prescribed the medication by the 
Concentration Center two years ago, but now he obtains it illicitly from the street. 
He took a vacation and was glad to have time for himself. He would prefer to stay home and recover 
but realized that he was feeling increasingly worse and needed help. Regarding his current state, 
he mostly suffers from lack of energy and motivation and a predominantly sad mood. 
He hopes for improvement soon.

<Previous Psychiatric History>
One-time outpatient consultation with psychiatrist Dr. Hysterion approximately five years ago (ca. 2019) 
due to relationship conflicts. Two years ago (2021), diagnosed with ADHD at the 
Concentration Center and treated with various medications for ADHD and depression 
(Concerta, Wellbutrin), most recently with methylphenidate, 20 mg/day. 
Since January 2023, outpatient psychotherapy with Dr. phil. Daphne Hörgutzu. 
No previous psychiatric hospitalizations.

<Somatic History>
Arterial hypertension since 2021, treated with Lisinopril 5 mg. 
Evaluation at Meer Hospital due to porphyria.

<Sociobiographical History>
Full-time security employee at Safenight since 2020. Currently on vacation until the end of April 2024. 
Single, no stable relationship, no children. Completed hairdressing apprenticeship in 2005. 
Lives alone in Bern. Indications of earlier depressive episodes that were not treated. 
Describes himself as socially withdrawn. Good contact with his mother, who lives in Thun, 
though currently less so. No contact with father, no siblings.

<Family History>
Mr. Eggli's mother was treated for depression. No other known psychiatric illnesses in the family.

<Substance Use>
Alcohol very rarely. One-time severe intoxication in 2000 with a blood alcohol level of 3.5‰, 
monitored in emergency care. On the day of admission, he drank "two sips" of vodka. 
Otherwise, he does not consume alcohol regularly. Occasional cannabis use in youth, 
abstinent for many years.

<Collateral History>
His mother reported (phone call on 20.04.2024) that he had seemed significantly more withdrawn 
in recent weeks. He rarely contacted her on his own and mostly sounded very down and sad on the phone. 
She could not identify a specific reason.

<Forensic History>
None.

<Examination Findings>
<Mental Status>
Clear consciousness, fully oriented. Proverb correctly interpreted ("the apple doesn't fall far from the tree"). 
Mild disorientation in time (patchy memory of previous treatments). 
Mild difficulties with concentration and memory. Slightly slowed but goal-directed and coherent thinking. 
Overvalued ideas of poverty. Denies visual and auditory hallucinations. 
Denies experiences of external control. Affective state severely depressed, 
emotional reactivity markedly reduced but preserved. Feelings of worthlessness, 
pessimistic outlook on the future. Loss of interest and significant reduction in drive. 
Reports intermittent future-related anxieties and financial concerns. 
Reduced appetite. Denies compulsions. Otherwise friendly and cooperative in interaction. 
Marked sleep-onset insomnia, unable to fall asleep before 2:00 a.m. 
Acute suicidal thoughts and plans clearly and credibly denied. 
No prior suicide attempts. Reports intermittent passive death wish. 
Protective factors: stable employment and supportive relationship with mother. 
Able to make agreements. Clearly distanced from risk to others. 
Overall no evidence of acute self- or external endangerment.
