
<Discharge Report>
EGGLI Marius, 27.09.1980, Paradisstrasse 57, 3014 Bern
Dear Colleague,
We report on the above-mentioned patient already known to us,
who was in our inpatient care from 01.03.2024 to 29.03.2024 and
in our (partial) inpatient care from 30.04.2024 to 15.04.2024
on Ward Methusalem.

<Diagnoses>
* F33.2 Recurrent depressive disorder, current severe episode without psychotic symptoms

<Psychiatric and Somatic Comorbid Diagnoses>
* F90.0 ADHD (external diagnosis), simple activity and attention disorder
* History of F10.0 Mental and behavioral disorders due to alcohol, acute intoxication
* Arterial hypertension

<Admission Circumstances>
Presented to the Insel psychiatric emergency department on referral from Dr. Zwanghaft,
accompanied by his wife on a voluntary basis.
Transferred from there by taxi to UPD Bolligenstrasse.

<Summary of History>
Mr. Eggli reported work-related stress upon admission. Since the summer, he has felt overwhelmed, had to work many extra hours, and felt he had little to no free time. He had not felt joy for months, possibly years, merely surviving. Recently, he had to force himself to go to work due to a lack of motivation.
To self-medicate and stay active, he had increasingly used stimulants (approximately 60 mg methylphenidate orally per day). Initially prescribed by the Concentration Center two years ago, he now obtains the medication illicitly.
He took time off and was glad to finally have time for himself. He preferred staying at home and recovering but realized he was feeling increasingly worse and needed help. He reported suffering most from fatigue, lack of motivation, and a persistently sad mood. He hoped this would soon improve.

<Previous Psychiatric History>
Single outpatient consultation with psychiatrist Dr. Hysterion five years ago (approx. 2019) due to relationship conflicts.
Two years ago (2021): diagnosed with ADHD at the Concentration Center, treated with various medications for ADHD and depression (Concerta, Wellbutrin), most recently methylphenidate 20 mg daily.
Since January 2023, outpatient psychotherapy with Dr. phil. Daphne Hörgutzu. No previous psychiatric hospitalizations.

<Somatic History>
Arterial hypertension since 2021, treated with Lisinopril 5 mg.
Assessment at Meer Hospital due to porphyria.

<Sociobiographical History>
Security employee at Safenight since 2020, full-time. Currently on vacation until the end of April 2024.
Single, no steady relationship, no children. Trained as a hairdresser in 2005. Lives alone in Bern.
Indications of previous untreated depressive episodes. Describes himself as socially withdrawn. Good but recently reduced contact with his mother, who lives in Thun. No contact with father, no siblings.

<Family History>
Mother was treated for depression. No other known psychiatric illnesses in the family.

<Substance Use>
Alcohol very rarely. One instance of severe intoxication in 2000 with 3.5‰ monitored in the emergency department. On the day of admission, he consumed "two sips" of vodka. Otherwise, no regular alcohol consumption.
Occasional cannabis use in youth, abstinent for many years.

<Collateral History>
His mother (phone call on 20.04.2024) reported that her son had seemed noticeably more withdrawn in recent weeks. He rarely initiated contact and usually sounded very sad and down on the phone. She could not name a specific reason.

<Forensic History>
None.

<Examination Findings>
<Mental Status>
Clear consciousness, fully oriented. Proverb correctly interpreted ("the apple doesn't fall far from the tree").
Slight disorientation in time (gaps in memory regarding past treatments). Mild concentration and memory difficulties. Slightly slowed but goal-directed and coherent thought processes. Overvalued ideas of poverty. Denies visual and auditory hallucinations. Denies thought influence.
Affective state severely depressed, affective responsiveness significantly reduced but preserved. Feelings of worthlessness, pessimistic outlook. Loss of interest and significantly reduced drive. Reports intermittent fear about the future and financial concerns. Appetite loss. Denies compulsions.
Otherwise friendly and cooperative in contact. Marked difficulties falling asleep; unable to sleep before 2:00 AM. Acute suicidal thoughts and plans clearly and credibly denied. No previous suicide attempts. Reported intermittent passive death wishes.
Protective factors: stable employment and a stabilizing relationship with his mother. Capable of agreements. Clearly distanced from risk to others.
Overall, no evidence of acute risk to self or others.
